README.md, before:

# Dexter - Free 🤖

Dexter is an autonomous financial research agent that thinks, plans, and learns as it works. It performs analysis using task planning, self-reflection, and real-time market data. Think Claude Code, but built specifically for financial research.

*It's a fork of https://github.com/virattt/dexter* 


<img width="979" height="651" alt="Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 14 17 41" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f3c5cac-d8fd-4cb8-8f79-87e0961ef40d" />

## Overview

Dexter takes complex financial questions and turns them into clear, step-by-step research plans. It runs those tasks using live market data, checks its own work, and refines the results until it has a confident, data-backed answer.  

It’s not just another chatbot.  It’s an agent that plans ahead, verifies its progress, and keeps iterating until the job is done.

**Key Capabilities:**
- **Intelligent Task Planning**: Automatically decomposes complex queries into structured research steps
- **Autonomous Execution**: Selects and executes the right tools to gather financial data
- **Self-Validation**: Checks its own work and iterates until tasks are complete
- **Real-Time Financial Data**: Access to income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements
- **Safety Features**: Built-in loop detection and step limits to prevent runaway execution

Dexter-Free also supports the **free API from Yahoo Finance**, giving you a zero-cost data provider option out of the box.

[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/michaelh03x?style=social)](https://twitter.com/michaelh03x)

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- OpenAI API key (get [here](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys))
- Financial Datasets API key (optional; get [here](https://financialdatasets.ai) for premium data)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/virattt/dexter.git
cd dexter
```

2. Install dependencies with uv:
```bash
uv sync
```

3. Set up your environment variables:
```bash
# Copy the example environment file
cp env.example .env

# Edit .env and add your API keys
# OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
# FINANCIAL_DATASETS_API_KEY=your-financial-datasets-api-key
```

### Usage

Run Dexter in interactive mode (defaults to Yahoo Finance):
```bash
uv run dexter-agent
```

Switch to the FinancialDatasets provider when you need premium data:
```bash
uv run dexter-agent --provider financialdatasets
```

### Using a Local OpenAI-Compatible Server

Dexter can talk to an OpenAI-compatible API such as LM Studio, vLLM, or Ollama (with the OpenAI endpoint enabled).

1) Configure environment (or use CLI flags):
```bash
# .env
OPENAI_BASE_URL=http://localhost:1234/v1   # Your server endpoint
OPENAI_MODEL=llama3.1                      # Model id on your server
# If your server doesn't require a key, leave OPENAI_API_KEY unset; Dexter will use a safe default.
```

2) Run Dexter (env-based):
```bash
uv run dexter-agent
```

Or pass overrides via CLI:
```bash
uv run dexter-agent --openai-base-url http://localhost:1234/v1 --openai-model llama3.1
```

Notes:
- Tool calling/structured outputs require a model that supports function-calling. If unsupported, Dexter gracefully falls back to plain text responses.
- Optional tuning via `OPENAI_TIMEOUT` and `OPENAI_MAX_RETRIES`.

### Example Queries

Try asking Dexter questions like:
- "What was Apple's revenue growth over the last 4 quarters?"
- "Compare Microsoft and Google's operating margins for 2023"
- "Analyze Tesla's cash flow trends over the past year"
- "What is Amazon's debt-to-equity ratio based on recent financials?"

Dexter will automatically:
1. Break down your question into research tasks
2. Fetch the necessary financial data
3. Perform calculations and analysis
4. Provide a comprehensive, data-rich answer

## Architecture

Dexter uses a multi-agent architecture with specialized components:

- **Planning Agent**: Analyzes queries and creates structured task lists
- **Action Agent**: Selects appropriate tools and executes research steps
- **Validation Agent**: Verifies task completion and data sufficiency
- **Answer Agent**: Synthesizes findings into comprehensive responses

## Project Structure

```
dexter/
├── src/
│   ├── dexter/
│   │   ├── agent.py      # Main agent orchestration logic
│   │   ├── model.py      # LLM interface
│   │   ├── tools.py      # Financial data tools
│   │   ├── prompts.py    # System prompts for each component
│   │   ├── schemas.py    # Pydantic models
│   │   ├── utils/        # Utility functions
│   │   └── cli.py        # CLI entry point
├── pyproject.toml
└── uv.lock
```

## Configuration

Dexter supports configuration via the `Agent` class initialization:

```python
from dexter.agent import Agent

agent = Agent(
    max_steps=20,              # Global safety limit
    max_steps_per_task=5       # Per-task iteration limit
)
```

## How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

**Important**: Please keep your pull requests small and focused.  This will make it easier to review and merge.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

add configurable openai compat provider

README.md, after:

# Dexter - Free 🤖

Dexter is an autonomous financial research agent that thinks, plans, and learns as it works. It performs analysis using task planning, self-reflection, and real-time market data. Think Claude Code, but built specifically for financial research.

*It's a fork of https://github.com/virattt/dexter* 


<img width="979" height="651" alt="Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 14 17 41" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f3c5cac-d8fd-4cb8-8f79-87e0961ef40d" />

## Overview

Dexter takes complex financial questions and turns them into clear, step-by-step research plans. It runs those tasks using live market data, checks its own work, and refines the results until it has a confident, data-backed answer.  

It’s not just another chatbot.  It’s an agent that plans ahead, verifies its progress, and keeps iterating until the job is done.

**Key Capabilities:**
- **Intelligent Task Planning**: Automatically decomposes complex queries into structured research steps
- **Autonomous Execution**: Selects and executes the right tools to gather financial data
- **Self-Validation**: Checks its own work and iterates until tasks are complete
- **Real-Time Financial Data**: Access to income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements
- **Safety Features**: Built-in loop detection and step limits to prevent runaway execution

Dexter-Free also supports the **free API from Yahoo Finance**, giving you a zero-cost data provider option out of the box.

[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/michaelh03x?style=social)](https://twitter.com/michaelh03x)

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- OpenAI API key (get [here](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys))
- Financial Datasets API key (optional; get [here](https://financialdatasets.ai) for premium data)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/virattt/dexter.git
cd dexter
```

2. Install dependencies with uv:
```bash
uv sync
```

3. Set up your environment variables:
```bash
# Copy the example environment file
cp env.example .env

# Edit .env and add your API keys
# OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
# FINANCIAL_DATASETS_API_KEY=your-financial-datasets-api-key
```

### Usage

Run Dexter in interactive mode (defaults to Yahoo Finance):
```bash
uv run dexter-agent
```

Switch to the FinancialDatasets provider when you need premium data:
```bash
uv run dexter-agent --provider financialdatasets
```

### Using a Local OpenAI-Compatible Server

Dexter can talk to an OpenAI-compatible API such as LM Studio, vLLM, or Ollama (with the OpenAI endpoint enabled).

1) Configure environment (or use CLI flags):
```bash
# .env
OPENAI_BASE_URL=http://localhost:1234/v1   # Your server endpoint
OPENAI_MODEL=llama3.1                      # Model id on your server
# Hint Dexter about the compatibility layer (openai or ollama); defaults to auto-detect.
# OPENAI_COMPAT_PROVIDER=ollama
# If your server doesn't require a key, leave OPENAI_API_KEY unset; Dexter will use a safe default.
```

2) Run Dexter (env-based):
```bash
uv run dexter-agent
```

Or pass overrides via CLI:
```bash
uv run dexter-agent --openai-base-url http://localhost:1234/v1 --openai-model llama3.1
```

Notes:
- Tool calling/structured outputs require a model that supports function-calling. If unsupported, Dexter gracefully falls back to plain text responses.
- If you're using the official OpenAI API, set `OPENAI_COMPAT_PROVIDER=openai` (or leave it blank). For Ollama/OpenAI-compatible locals, set `OPENAI_COMPAT_PROVIDER=ollama` to enable JSON-mode coercion.
- Optional tuning via `OPENAI_TIMEOUT` and `OPENAI_MAX_RETRIES`.

### Example Queries

Try asking Dexter questions like:
- "What was Apple's revenue growth over the last 4 quarters?"
- "Compare Microsoft and Google's operating margins for 2023"
- "Analyze Tesla's cash flow trends over the past year"
- "What is Amazon's debt-to-equity ratio based on recent financials?"

Dexter will automatically:
1. Break down your question into research tasks
2. Fetch the necessary financial data
3. Perform calculations and analysis
4. Provide a comprehensive, data-rich answer

## Architecture

Dexter uses a multi-agent architecture with specialized components:

- **Planning Agent**: Analyzes queries and creates structured task lists
- **Action Agent**: Selects appropriate tools and executes research steps
- **Validation Agent**: Verifies task completion and data sufficiency
- **Answer Agent**: Synthesizes findings into comprehensive responses

## Project Structure

```
dexter/
├── src/
│   ├── dexter/
│   │   ├── agent.py      # Main agent orchestration logic
│   │   ├── model.py      # LLM interface
│   │   ├── tools.py      # Financial data tools
│   │   ├── prompts.py    # System prompts for each component
│   │   ├── schemas.py    # Pydantic models
│   │   ├── utils/        # Utility functions
│   │   └── cli.py        # CLI entry point
├── pyproject.toml
└── uv.lock
```

## Configuration

Dexter supports configuration via the `Agent` class initialization:

```python
from dexter.agent import Agent

agent = Agent(
    max_steps=20,              # Global safety limit
    max_steps_per_task=5       # Per-task iteration limit
)
```

## How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

**Important**: Please keep your pull requests small and focused.  This will make it easier to review and merge.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
